Hi.
My name is Sarah, and
welcome to you a day
in the life of a
software engineer.
Come on in.
So I woke up at 5:00 today.
I already got my workout in.
I took care of my fur kids
and gave them a little love.
But I officially
can't start my workday
without a cup of coffee,
so I make a cup of coffee.
A software engineer
develops software
for multiple companies.
I have been working at my
company for about five years,
but I've been coding for
a little over a decade.
My usual schedule
is 8:00 to 4:00,
it's kind of nice to be
able to take a break here
and there to do anything that
I need to around the house
or go to a store if I need to.
So the task that I
perform on a daily basis
include updating
my code if somebody
requested a change that I make.
Sometimes I spend a
lot of time replying
to emails if that's necessary.
I check in on my
interns to see if they
need any help with anything.
My desk setup consists
of two external monitors,
and one's for code, one is for
seeing my changes, and then
my computer for emails and
different terminal things.
I also just have a little
fun space where my birthday
cards sit, and then a whole
slew of different mice
and keyboards.
So the first thing that I'm
going to do today coding-wise
is making sure that
what I built works.
This can usually take
between 30 minutes to an hour
depending on what
I'm working on.
So right now my primary
language is include
Java and a lot of HTML and CSS.
But I find the most fun in
writing anything based out
of JavaScript.
So like Node.js.
So I personally use Sublime.
I think it's very low-effort
and is really easy to use.
It's really difficult to
write code the first time
and it be right.
So either you're going to find
a mistake or somebody is going
to say, hey, this isn't
really working the way
that you said it would,
and you're just going
to have to be OK with that.
The first thing I quoted
today was the Delete button.
And so you can
see the code here.
And this page is
represented on this page
as the UI or the frontend.
And you can see that each what
I call card has a Delete button.
And so now, if you
click on Delete,
it'll delete that specific
card, and now there
are no collections.
One of the benefits of working
from home as a software
engineer is being
able to cook at home.
It's my form of
meditation to kind of-- it
repositions my brain.
I get to think about what
I'm going to work on next.
I get to process maybe a
meeting that I was just in.
But cooking is
really a way for me
to recenter myself for the day.
I like to spend time on
Reddit, and I think a lot of us
do when we're on the
computer, pretty much all day.
But just so catch
up on YouTube videos
or maybe just talk to
my friends on Discord,
maybe plan what I'm going
to do for the evening.
But that usually is
about 30 to 45 minutes.
Right after lunch,
I to get into work.
And since most of my meetings
occur in the morning,
I really get a
longer time period
in the afternoon to have
my next coding session.
So it can range between
one to two hours instead
of having to take breaks.
I feel the most creative
in the afternoon.
I think that's because
I've had all of my coffee
and I've had my
food or my snacks,
and I really just am
into the meat of the day.
So in the afternoons,
I have more energy
in my brain to accomplish the
tasks that I set for myself.
I like to keep up with new
software and new frameworks
that happen and
come up by actually
looking through job openings.
And if there is a new framework
that's really important,
a lot of companies will
post that in their job
description or a requirement.
So I'll kind of go through
what jobs are available
and see what companies
are using most of,
and sometimes I even learn
about new frameworks that way.
Another great thing
about working from home
is being able to
leave if I have to.
And I'm feeling something
really spicy tonight,
so there's this store that
I'm going to go to and do
a little grocery shopping.
If you're looking to become
a better software engineer,
I would recommend maybe
going to a class website
like Udemy or a
coding boot camp,
or even just kind of
thinking about a project
that you'd like to build and
starting it from scratch.
Gaining experience by
doing is the best way
to keep yourself up to date
and become a better software
engineer.
I got into my profession
kind of by accident.
I knew that I wanted to write,
so I actually started off
as a journalism major.
But I wanted to kind of
work with my creative side,
so I decided to write
code, which I am writing,
but I'm also using
my creative side.
So I went from being a
journalism major to a software
engineer.
My goals for my future
are to kind of transition
into more of a management role.
So I enrolled myself into a
project management course.
What's nice about
being in this field
is that continuing
education is very
important to a lot of
people, so you get time
to be able to do that.
I usually wrap up my day
by going through my emails
and making sure that I didn't
miss anything that I was
supposed to get to by today.
I check my work
schedule for tomorrow
to see if there
are any meanings.
The last thing I like to
do at the end of the day
or I have to do at the end
of the day is log my time.
So I worked on the frontend
for about four hours today,
and I worked on other things
for about another four hours.
So that's eight hours.
And I try to end
my day around 4:00
so that I have enough
time at the end of the day
to kind of wind down from it.
Software engineering
can be pretty stressful,
so the best way for me to wind
down from a stressful workday
is to play video games.
It's just a really
easy and relaxing game
to wind down my day.
So I think coding
asks a lot from you
and it takes a lot
of energy to do it.
So I would recommend just
being OK with a high-stress,
high-energy environment.
I wish I knew how tough it
would be entering the field,
but all you have to do
is be confident and make
sure to speak your mind
and just be yourself
and it's going to be OK.
Thanks for watching.
Be sure to give us like and
subscribe to Indeed's channel.
See you next time.
Hi, welcome to
the grocery store.
Let's go shopping.
Come on over.
Oh, am I going?
OK, away we go.